All right, we're gonna talk about
improving the return user experience.
Now, this is important because it wouldn't
be a web-performance talk unless we
talk about caching.
All right, let's talk about caching.
So we already talked a little
bit about server caching,
because that's largely what
we implemented with our CDN.
Is we told the server is rather than
having our original host produce
the content every time,
we cached it inside of our CDN,
which is a host closer to our end users.
That's one kind of caching.
The next kind of caching is we could
do a browser response caching.
So the next time our users
make a request to our CDN,
let's say it's asking for
hero-desktop.png.
What would normally happen is the CDN
would say, great, here's the bytes and
start spewing out all those
bytes back to the user about it.
Now, what we could do, and
through all those bytes,
there's all the overhead that
goes with making that request.
So if it was the first request, it has to
do a DNS lookup and a TCP and all those
sort of things, the initial request
overhead, the response, the processing.
There's a bunch of work that goes behind
the scenes in the browser to do that.
And so
if we wanted to get around some of that,
the CDN could return caching headers.
It could say, hey user,
here's some information about
this file I just returned.
Here's an Etag, which is like a hash.
It's like, here's an ID that represents
the contents of this file that I gave you.
And the last time this file was
modified was September 23rd.
Well, that's the user's browser, the
browser will remember that information.
And the next time the user comes back,
they come back to buy some more stickers
from me, they're going to include
that data on the next request.
They'll be in the form of an
If-None-Match, the contents of the Etag,
and If-Modified-Since,
the contents of the last modified date.
It's essentially saying, hey,
here's the thing I already have,
you gave me last time,
do you have something newer than this?
And the CDN or your host will
look at it and if it matches,
if it's the same ID and the same date.
Instead of returning all of those bites
and streaming that image back out,
it returns an empty response
that says 304 Not Modified.
You got the thing, man,
go ahead and keep using it,
and the request is a lot smaller.
Now, that's one way we can do it, but
there's a second way we could do it,
because what we just did
still involved a request.
A request still had to be sent and
returned.
And if we didn't have a CDN,
we'd still have to pay the Amsterdam to
Minneapolis tax of that round trip,
even though it's an empty response.
So another way we can do this is with
Cache-Control and Expires headers.
It's rather than saying, hey,
let me describe this file so
we can make sure you always
have the latest version.
We can say, this file that I gave you,
you can keep it for
this many seconds, and
it doesn't expire until this date.
You can explicitly set that.
And then what will happen
is it says to the user or
to the user's browser,
when the next time they ask for it,
if that date hasn't passed yet,
the request is free, it doesn't happen.
The request is never even made.
It will say from disk cache,
because the browser
will just never make that
overhead request to the host,
it will use that value until December 31,
2025.
Now, this is great, but
it's also how you get in trouble.
Because if you tell the browsers
to cache a JavaScript file,
it's just called scripts.js, all those
browsers will cache that JavaScript file,
that version of that file,
until 2025, December 31.
So if you want to change that JavaScript
file, you've gotta change the name of it,
or the user will continue
operating on the old one forever.
This is one of the reasons why just about
every JavaScript bundler will stick some
unique string into the file name.
It's to break caching problems,
like this, so that you can cache or
tell the end user's browser to cache
files for long periods of time.